Installation instructions for WordNet 1.6 Semantic Concordance package.

1. Manifest

When the WordNet Semantic Concordance package is unbundled you should
have the following files and subdirectories in this directory:

	INSTALL		this file
	LICENSE		WordNet copyright and license agreement
	README		README file for WordNet system
	doc		Semantic Concordance package documentation:

			cntlist.5 cxtfile.5 semcor.7 
			senseidx.5 taglist.5		man page source (nroff)
			
			cntlist.5ps cxtfile.5ps semcor.7ps
			senseidx.5ps taglist.5ps	man page in Postscript

			cntlist.htm cxtfile.htm semcor.htm
			senseidx.htm taglist.htm	man page in HTML

			cntlist.txt cxtfile.txt semcor.txt
			senseidx.txt taglist.txt	man page in ASCII
	
	brown1		103 semantically tagged Brown Corpus files
				(all content words tagged)
	brown2		83 semantically tagged Brown Corpus files
				(all content words tagged)
	brownv		166 semantically tagged Brown Corpus files
				(only verbs tagged)

Each semantic concordance directory (brown1, brown2, brownv) contains
the following files and subdirectories:

	cntlist		file listing number of times each tagged sense
			occurs in the semantic concordance 
	statistics	statistics on the semantic concordance
	tagfiles	directory of semantically tagged files
	taglist		file listing location of all tagged senses 
			within the semantic concordance 

2. Installing the Semantic Concordance Package

The Semantic Concordance package is distributed via FTP and on the
WordNet CD-ROM.  If using the CD-ROM, you can either access the
concordance files directly from the CD-ROM (saving about 43MB of disk
space), or install it on your hard drive.

2.1 Installing the FTP Package

The FTP package is distributed packaged for Unix, PC and Macintosh
platforms:

	semcor16.tar.gz		Unix
	semcor16.exe		PC
	semcor16.mac.sea	Macintosh

The downloaded files should be placed in WNHOME, the directory in
which you installed the WordNet database package.  See "Installation
Procedure" below for the next step.

2.2 Installing from CD-ROM

The CD-ROM has two semantic concordance directories: one contains the
compressed archives for installation on your hard drive; the other
contains the files listed in the Manifest for use directly from the
CD-ROM.  

For all platforms, installation of the Semantic Concordance package to
your hard drive involves copying the compressed archive to the WNHOME
directory, then uncompressing it.

	File to copy from CD-ROM
	========================
	PC	packages\pc\semcor16.exe
	Unix	packages/unix/semcor16.tar.gz
	Mac	Packages:semcor16.mac.sea

See "Installation Procedure" below for the next step.

2.3 Installation Procedure

The PC and Macintosh packages are self-extracting archives: simply
execute the archive to unbundle the package.  The Unix archive is a
compressed tar file.  Use the following command:

	gunzip -c semcor16.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Installation of the package creates a "semcor" subdirectory in WNHOME
containing the files listed in the Manifest.

2.3 Cleaning Up

After successful installation of the Semantic Concordance package to
your hard drive, you can remove the archive file from WNHOME.

3. Using the Semantic Concordances

You must have the WordNet 1.6 Database package to use the 1.6 semantic
concordances.  Files in the semantic concordances are tagged to senses
in the 1.6 database.  The Escort tool for browsing the semantic
concordances for instances of tags to particular WordNet senses will
be available separately from the WordNet Web and FTP sites at a later
date. 

The semantically tagged files are organized into three semantic
concordances based on when the files were tagged.  In the case of
"brownv", only verbs are tagged.  Prior releases have only included
the 103 Brown Corpus files contained in the "brown1" semantic
concordance.  The manual page "cxtfile.5" describes the format the
semantically tagged files, and "semcor.7" is a discussion about the
semantic concordances in general.

3.1 Using the Semantic Concordances from the CD-ROM

The Semantic Concordances can be used directly from the CD-ROM.  The
files and directories listed in the Manifest can be found on the
CD-ROM in the following directories:

	PC and Unix	semcor
	Macintosh	Semcor

4. Information about WordNet

Additional documentation and information about WordNet is available
online.  From the WordNet Web site you can browse all of the WordNet
Reference Manual manual pages, including those listed above, and can
download "Five Papers on WordNet" which describes the WordNet project.
The WordNet Reference Manual is also available for download as a
compressed tar file or zip file from either our Web site or FTP site.

Web site - http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/
FTP site - ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu, directory "pub/wordnet"
